---
title: 'Bias in AI: Bias Detection and Mitigation in Large Language Models (Collaboration with UWV)'
layout: default
description: 'This is a qualitative study where the goal is to look into common theories and disciplines that might influence novel Hybrid Intelligence methods.'
topic: 'Bias detection in LLMs'
keywords: 
    - 'Fairness'
    - 'Large Language Models'
    - 'Social AI'
    - 'BERT models'
supervisor: 'Jieying Chen'
contact: 'j.chen2@vu.nl'
degree: 'B.Sc./M.Sc.'
description_link: '/theses_dir/JC_AIBias'
---

<!-- The informtation below doesn´t need to be adjusted. It is automatically pulled from the frontmatter-->
## {{page.title}} 
*Supervisor: {{page.supervisor}} ({{page.contact}})*

### Abstract: 
Large Language Models (LLMs) are widely used in diverse
applications ranging from information retrieval to content creation has
underscored the importance of their reliability and neutrality. While LLMs
have proven to be valuable tools, their training on vast and varied
datasets may inadvertently introduce or perpetuate biases present in
the data. Employing ontologies, structured representations of
knowledge with predefined relationships, can serve as a unique way to
validate and rectify biased outputs by benchmarking generated answers
against a standardized knowledge base.

### Objectives
1. Investigate existing methodologies for bias detection in LLMs, their
limitations, and the potential use of ontologies as validators.
2. Design and curate a comprehensive ontology capturing unbiased
representations of various knowledge domains, emphasizing those
particularly prone to bias.
3. Develop a framework that utilizes the curated ontology to compare
and contrast the outputs generated by LLMs, highlighting potential
deviations that indicate bias.
4. Design metrics to measure the degree and nature of bias in LLM
outputs, providing a standardized way to assess and compare biases
across different models.
5. Propose and implement strategies to rectify identified biases in LLMs,
leveraging ontology as a guide for correct and neutral answers.
6. Test the developed bias mitigation techniques using real-world
scenarios and diverse datasets to assess their efficacy and robustness. (modificato) 


### Other projects
For more project descriptions, please check here: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1S8JdCk_Re0F189RaBjadVd8cEQwZ9sglwOMZoZioOQ0/edit?usp=sharing
